01-untitled.wav	So I'll be speaking to you using language because I can. This is one of these magical abilities that we humans have. We can transmit really calm-
02-untitled.wav	complicated thoughts to one another. So what I'm doing right now is I'm making sounds with my mouth as I'm exhaling, I'm making tones and hisses and puffs. And those
03-untitled.wav	are creating air vibrations in the air. Those air vibrations are traveling to you. They're hitting your eardrums and then your brain takes those vibrations.
04-untitled.wav	from your eardrums and transforms them into thoughts. I hope. I hope that's happening. So because of this
05-untitled.wav	Our disability, we humans are able to transmit our ideas across vast switches of space and time. We're able to transmit knowledge across minds.
06-untitled.wav	I can put bizarre new idea in your mind right now. I could say, imagine a jellyfish waltzing in a library while thinking about quantum-
07-untitled.wav	mechanics. Now if everything has gone relatively well in your life so far, you probably haven't had that thought before. But now I've just made you think it through
08-untitled.wav	language. Now of course there isn't just one language in the world, there are about 7,000 languages spoken around the world and all the languages differ from one another in all kinds of ways.
09-untitled.wav	languages have different sounds, they have different vocabularies, and they also have different structures, very importantly different structures.
10-untitled.wav	begs the question, does the language we speak shape the way we think? Now this is an ancient question people have been speculating about this question for forever. Charlemagne, Holy Roman Emperor.
11-untitled.wav	said to have a second language is to have a second soul. Strong statement that language crafts reality. But on the other hand, Shakespeare has Juliet say,
12-untitled.wav	What's in a name, a rose by any other name, would smell a sweet? Well, that suggests that maybe language doesn't craft reality. These arguments have gone back and forth for her.
13-untitled.wav	thousands of years. But until recently there hasn't been any data to help us decide either way. Recently in my lab and other labs around the world we've started doing
14-untitled.wav	research and now we have actual scientific data to weigh in on this question. So let me tell you about some of my favorite examples. I'll start with an example.
15-untitled.wav	from an Aboriginal community in Australia that I had a chance to work with. These are the cooktire people they live in Pomporau at the very west edge of Cape York.
16-untitled.wav	And what's cool about Cooctire is in Cooctire they don't use words like left and right. And instead everything is in cardinal directions, north, south, east and west.
17-untitled.wav	And when I say everything, I really mean everything. You would say something like, oh, there's an ant on your southwest leg. Or move your cup to the North Northeast.
18-untitled.wav	a little bit. In fact, the way that you say hello in Quotire is you say which way are you going and the answer should be north north east in the far distance. How about you?
19-untitled.wav	So imagine as you're walking around your day, every person you greet, you have to report your heading direction. That would actually get...
20-untitled.wav	you orient it pretty fast, right? Because you literally couldn't get past hello if you didn't know which way you were going. In fact, people who speak like
21-untitled.wav	which is like this stay oriented really really well they stay oriented better than we used to think humans could We used to think that humans were worse than other creatures because some biological
22-untitled.wav	Oh, we don't have magnets in our beaks or in our scales. Now, if your language and your culture trains you to do it, actually you can do it. They're humans around the world who stay oriented really well.
23-untitled.wav	And just to get us in agreement about how different this is from the way we do it, I want you to close your eyes for a second.
24-untitled.wav	point southeast. I'll keep your eyes closed point. Okay so you can open your eyes. I see you guys
25-untitled.wav	there, there, there, there, there. I don't know which way it is myself. You have not been a lot of help.
26-untitled.wav	So let's just say the accuracy in this room was not very high. This is a big difference in cognitive ability across languages, right? Where one group, very distinguished group like you guys, does-
27-untitled.wav	doesn't know which way is which, but in another group, I could ask a five-year-old and they would know. They're also really big differences in how people think about time. So.
28-untitled.wav	Here I have pictures of my grandfather at different ages. And if I ask an English speaker to organize time, they might lay it out this way from left to right. This has to do with...
29-untitled.wav	writing direction if you were a speaker of Hebrew Arabic you might do it going in the opposite direction from right to left. How would the cook tire this
30-untitled.wav	Aboriginal group I just told you about, do it. They don't use words like left and right. Let me give you a hint. When we set people facing south, they organized time from left.
31-untitled.wav	to write. When we sat them facing north, they organized time from right to left. When we sat them facing east, time came towards the body.
32-untitled.wav	What's the pattern? East to West, right? So for them, time doesn't actually get locked on the body at all. It gets locked on the landscape.
33-untitled.wav	me if I'm facing this way then time goes this way and I'm facing this way then time goes this way and facing this way, time goes this way. Very egocentric of me to have the direction of time.
34-untitled.wav	I'm chasing me around every time I turn my body. For the cooktire, time is locked on the landscapes. Dramatically different way of thinking about time. Here's another really smart.
35-untitled.wav	human trick. Suppose I ask you how many penguins are there? Well I bet I know how you'd solve that problem if you solved it. You went 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. You counted them.
36-untitled.wav	You named each one with a number and the last number you said was the number of penguins. Now this is a little trick that you're taught to use as kids. You learn the number list and you know.
37-untitled.wav	You learn how to apply it. A little linguistic trick. Well, some languages don't do this because some languages don't have exact number words. They're languages that
38-untitled.wav	don't have a word like seven or a word like eight. And in fact, people who speak these languages don't count. And they have trouble keeping track of exact quantities. So for-
39-untitled.wav	For example, if I ask you to match this number of penguins to the same number of ducks, you would be able to do that by counting, but folks who don't have that linguistic.
40-untitled.wav	trick can't do that. Languages also differ in how they divide up the color spectrum, the visual world, some languages
41-untitled.wav	lots of words for colors, some have only a couple words light and dark, and languages differ in where they put boundaries between colors. So for example, in English there's a way...
42-untitled.wav	for blue that covers all of the colors that you can see on the screen, but in Russian there isn't a single word. Instead Russian speakers have to differentiate between light blue, galoboy, and dark blue.
43-untitled.wav	blue, seeney. So Russians have this lifetime of experience of in language distinguishing these two colors. When we test people's ability to
44-untitled.wav	discriminate these colors. But we find is that Russian speakers are faster across this linguistic boundary. They're faster to be able to tell the difference between a light and a dark bloom.
45-untitled.wav	And when you look at people's brains as they're looking at colors, say you have colors shifting slowly from light to dark blue, the brains of people who use different...
46-untitled.wav	words for light and dark blue will give a surprise reaction as the color shift from light to dark as if something has categorically changed. Where's the brains of...
47-untitled.wav	English speakers, for example, that don't make this categorical distinction, don't give that surprise, because nothing is categorically changing. Languages have all kinds of...
48-untitled.wav	of structural quirks. This is one of my favorites. Lots of languages have grammatical gender, so every noun gets assigned a gender, often masculine or feminine.
49-untitled.wav	and these genders differ across languages. So for example, the sun is feminine in German, but masculine in Spanish, and the moon they're reverse. Could this actually...
50-untitled.wav	have any consequence of how people think, to German speakers think of the sun as somehow more female like, and the moon, somehow more male like. Actually, it turns out that's the case.
51-untitled.wav	So if you ask German and Spanish speakers to say describe a bridge like the one here, bridge happens to be grammatically...
52-untitled.wav	feminine and German grammatically masculine and Spanish. German speakers are more likely to say, bridges are beautiful, elegant, these stereotypically feminine words, whereas...
53-untitled.wav	Spanish speakers will be more likely to say they're strong or long these masculine words.
54-untitled.wav	Language is also differ in how they describe events. So you take an event like this and accident, in English it's fine to say he broke the vase.
55-untitled.wav	In a language like Spanish, you'll be more likely to say the vase broke or the vase broke itself. If it's an accident, you wouldn't.
56-untitled.wav	say that someone did it. In English, quite weirdly, we can even say things like, I broke my arm. Now, in lots of languages, you couldn't use that construction.
57-untitled.wav	unless you are a lunatic and you went out looking to break your arm and you succeeded. If it was an accident, you would use a different construction.
58-untitled.wav	This has consequences. So people who speak different languages will pay attention to different things depending on what their language usually requires them to do. So...
59-untitled.wav	We show the same accent to English speakers and Spanish speakers. English speakers will remember who did it because English requires you to say he did it, he broke the...
60-untitled.wav	the vase. Where Spanish speakers might be less likely to remember who did it if it's an accident, but they're more likely to remember that it was an accident. They're more likely to remember the intention.
61-untitled.wav	So, two people watch the same event, witness the same crime, but end up remembering different things about that event. This is...
62-untitled.wav	implications, of course, for eyewitness testimony. It also has implications for blame and punishment. So if you take English speakers, and I just show you someone breaking a vase,
63-untitled.wav	and I say he broke the vase, as opposed to I say the vase broke. Even though you can witness it yourself, you can watch the video, you can watch the crime against the vase.
64-untitled.wav	You will punish someone more, you will blame someone more if I just said he broke it as opposed to it broke. The language guides are reasoning about it.
65-untitled.wav	events. Now I've given you a few examples of how language can profoundly shape the way we think, and it does
66-untitled.wav	So, language can have big effects like we saw with space and time, where people can lay out space and time in completely different coordinate frames.
67-untitled.wav	other. Language can also have really deep effects. That's what we saw with the case of number. Having count words in your language, having number words.
68-untitled.wav	opens up the whole world of mathematics. Of course, if you don't count, you can't do algebra. You can't do any of the things that would be required to build a room like this or make this bra-
69-untitled.wav	This little trick of number words gives you a stepping stone until whole cognitive realm. Language can also have really early effects.
70-untitled.wav	on the case of color. These are really simple basic perceptual decisions. We make thousands of them all the time and yet language is getting in there.
71-untitled.wav	even with these tiny little perceptual decisions that we make. Language can have really broad effects, so the case of grammatical gender, maybe a little...
72-untitled.wav	silly but at the same time grammatical gendered applies to all nouns. That means language can shape how you're thinking about anything that can be named by a noun.
73-untitled.wav	It's a lot of stuff. And finally, I gave you an example of how language can shape things that have personal weight to us, ideas like blame and punishment or I-
74-untitled.wav	with this memory. These are important things in our daily lives. Now the beauty of linguistic diversity is that it reveals to us...
75-untitled.wav	just how ingenious and how flexible the human mind is. Human minds have invented not one cognitive universe, but 7000 or 7000
76-untitled.wav	languages spoken around the world. And we can create many more languages, of course, are living things, things that we can hone.
77-untitled.wav	change to suit our needs. Now the tragic thing is that we're losing so much of this linguistic diversity all the time. So we're losing about one language a week and by a semester.
78-untitled.wav	estimates, half of the world's languages will be gone in the next 100 years. And the even worse news is that right now almost everything we know about the human
79-untitled.wav	and the human brain is based on studies of usually American English speaking undergraduates at universities.
80-untitled.wav	excludes almost all humans. So what we know about the human mind is actually incredibly narrow and biased. And our
81-untitled.wav	Science has to do better. I want to leave you with this final thought. I've told you about how speakers of different languages think differently.
82-untitled.wav	But of course, that's not about how people elsewhere think. It's about how you think. It's how the language that you speak shapes the way that you think.
83-untitled.wav	And that gives you the opportunity to ask, why do I think the way that I do? How could I think differently? And also, what thoughts do I wish to create?
