01-untitled.wav	I want to tell you what I see coming. I've been lucky enough to be working on AI for almost 15 years now.
02-untitled.wav	Back when I started to describe it as fringe would be an understatement. Researchers would say, no, no, we're only working on machine learning.
03-untitled.wav	because working on AI was seen as way too out there. In 2010, just a very mention of the phrase AGI, artificial general intelligence.
04-untitled.wav	would get you some seriously strange looks. And even a cold shoulder. You're actually building AGI, people would say.
05-untitled.wav	Isn't that something out of science fiction? People thought it was 50 years away or a hundred years away if it was even possible at all
06-untitled.wav	Talk of AI was, I guess, kind of embarrassing. People generally thought we were weird.
07-untitled.wav	And I guess in some ways we kind of were. It wasn't long though, before AI started beating humans at a whole range of tasks that people previously thought were way out of reach.
08-untitled.wav	understanding images, translating languages, transcribing speech, playing go and chess.
09-untitled.wav	and even diagnosing diseases. People started waking up to the fact that AI was going to have an enormous impact.
10-untitled.wav	and they were rightly asking technologists like me some pretty tough questions. Is it true that AI is going to solve the climate crisis?
100-untitled.wav	For me, the benefits of this technology are stunningly obvious, and they inspire my life's work every single day. But quite frankly, they'll speak for themselves.
101-untitled.wav	Over the years, I've never shied away from highlighting risks and talking about downsides. Thinking in this way helps us focus on the huge challenges that lie ahead for all of us.
102-untitled.wav	But let's be clear, there is no path to progress where we leave technology behind. The prize for all of civilization is immense.
103-untitled.wav	We need solutions in healthcare and education to our climate crisis, and if AI delivers just a fraction of its potential, the next decade is going to be the most productive in human history.
104-untitled.wav	Here's another way to think about it. In the past, unlocking economic growth often came with huge downsides. The economy expanded as people discovered new continents and opened up new frontiers.
105-untitled.wav	but they colonized populations at the same time. We built factories, but they were grim and dangerous places to work. We struck oil.
106-untitled.wav	But we polluted the planet. Now, because we are still designing and building AI, we have the potential and opportunity to do it better. Radically better.
107-untitled.wav	And today we're not discovering a new continent and plundering its resources. We're building one from scratch. Sometimes people say that data or chips are the 21st century's new oil.
108-untitled.wav	But that's totally the wrong image. AI is to the mind what nuclear fusion is to energy. Limitless, abundant, world-changing.
109-untitled.wav	And AI really is different. That means we have to think about it creatively and honestly. We have to push our analogies and our metaphors to the very limits to be able to grapple with what's coming. Because this is not just another invention.
11-untitled.wav	Will it make personalized education available to everyone? Does it mean we'll all get universal basic income or we won't have to work anymore?
110-untitled.wav	AI is itself an infinite inventor. And yes, this is exciting and promising and concerning and intriguing all at once. To be quite honest, it's pretty surreal.
111-untitled.wav	But step back, see it on the long view of glacial time, and these really are the very most appropriate metaphors that we have today. Since the beginning of life on Earth...
112-untitled.wav	We've been evolving, changing, and then creating everything around us in our human world today. An AI isn't something outside of this story. In fact, it's the very opposite.
113-untitled.wav	It's the whole of everything that we have created distilled down into something that we can all interact with and benefit from. It's a reflection of humanity across time.
114-untitled.wav	And in this sense, it isn't a new species at all. This is where the metaphors end. Here's what I'll tell Kasperier next time he asks. AI isn't separate.
115-untitled.wav	AI isn't even in some senses new. AI is us. It's all of us. And this is perhaps the most promising and vital thing of all that even a six-year-old can get a sense for.
116-untitled.wav	As we build out AI, we can and must reflect all that is good, all that we love, all that is special about humanity, our empathy, our kindness, our curiosity and our creativity.
117-untitled.wav	This, I would argue, is the greatest challenge of the 21st century, but also the most wonderful, inspiring, and hopeful opportunity for all of us. Thank you.
12-untitled.wav	Should I be afraid? What does it mean for weapons and war? And of course, will China win? Are we in a race?
13-untitled.wav	Are we headed for a mass misinformation apocalypse? All good questions.
14-untitled.wav	But it was actually a simpler and much more fundamental question that left me puzzled.
15-untitled.wav	One that actually gets to the very heart of my work every day. One morning over breakfast.
16-untitled.wav	My six-year-old nephew, Caspian, was playing with Pi, the AI I created at my last company inflection.
17-untitled.wav	With a mouthful of scrambled eggs, he looked at me playing in the face and said, but Mustafa, what is an AI anyway?
18-untitled.wav	He's such a sincere and curious and optimistic little guy. He'd been talking to buy about how cool it would be if one day in the future.
19-untitled.wav	He could visit dinosaurs at the zoo and how he could make infinite amounts of chocolate at home. And why pie couldn't yet play ice pie?
20-untitled.wav	Well, I said it's a clever piece of software that's read most of the text on the open internet and it can talk to you about anything you want.
21-untitled.wav	Right! So like a person then, I was stumped.
22-untitled.wav	Genuinely left scratching my head. All my boring stock answers came rushing through my mind.
23-untitled.wav	No, but AI is just another general purpose technology like printing or steam. It'll be a tool that will augment us.
24-untitled.wav	and make us smarter and more productive. And when it gets better over time, it'll be like an all-knowing oracle that will help us solve grand scientific challenges.
25-untitled.wav	You know all of these responses started to feel I guess a little bit defensive
26-untitled.wav	and actually better suited to a policy seminar than breakfast with a no-nonsense six-year-old. Why am I hesitating? I thought to myself.
27-untitled.wav	You know, let's be honest, my nephew was asking me a simple question.
28-untitled.wav	that those of us in AI just don't confront often enough. What is it that we are actually creating?
29-untitled.wav	What does it mean to make something totally new? Fundamentally different to any invention that we have known before.
30-untitled.wav	It is clear that we are an inflection point in the history of humanity.
31-untitled.wav	On our current trajectory, we're headed towards the emergence of something that we are all struggling to describe.
32-untitled.wav	And yet we cannot control what we don't understand.
33-untitled.wav	And so the metaphors, the mental models, the names, these all matter.
34-untitled.wav	if we are to get the most out of AI whilst limiting its potential downsides.
35-untitled.wav	As someone who embraces the possibilities of this technology, but who's also always cared deeply about its ethics.
36-untitled.wav	We should, I think, be able to easily describe what it is we are building, and that includes the six-year-olds.
37-untitled.wav	So it's in that spirit that I offer up today the following metaphor for helping us to try to grapple with what this moment really is.
38-untitled.wav	I think AI should best be understood as something like a new digital species.
39-untitled.wav	Now, don't take this too literally, but I predict that we'll come to see them as digital companions.
40-untitled.wav	new partners in the journeys of all our lives. Whether you think we're on a 10, 20 or 30 year path here.
41-untitled.wav	This is in my view the most accurate and most fundamentally honest way of describing what's actually coming.
42-untitled.wav	and above all it enables everybody to prepare for and shape what comes next.
43-untitled.wav	Now I totally get this is a strong claim and I'm going to explain to everyone as best I can why I'm making it.
44-untitled.wav	But first let me just try to set the context. From the very first microscopic organisms.
45-untitled.wav	Life on Earth stretches back billions of years. Over that time, life evolved.
46-untitled.wav	and diversified, then a few million years ago something began to shift.
47-untitled.wav	After countless cycles of growth and adaptation, one of life's branches began using tools.
48-untitled.wav	And that branch grew into us. We went on to produce a mesmerising variety of tools.
49-untitled.wav	At first slowly and then with astonishing speed, we went from stone axes and fire.
50-untitled.wav	to language, writing and eventually industrial technologies.
51-untitled.wav	One invention unleashed a thousand more, and in time we became Homo Technologicus.
52-untitled.wav	Around 80 years ago, another new branch of technology began.
53-untitled.wav	With the invention of computers, we quickly jump from the first main frames and transistors.
54-untitled.wav	to today's smartphones and virtual reality headsets. Information, knowledge, communication, computation.
55-untitled.wav	In this revolution, creation has exploded like never before.
56-untitled.wav	And now a new wave is upon us, artificial intelligence.
57-untitled.wav	These waves of history are clearly speeding up as each one is amplified and accelerated by the last.
58-untitled.wav	And if you look back, it's clear that we are in the fastest and most consequential wave ever.
59-untitled.wav	The journeys of humanity and technology are now deeply intertwined.
60-untitled.wav	In just 18 months, over a billion people have used large language models.
61-untitled.wav	We've witnessed one landmark event after another. Just a few years ago, people said that AI would never be creative.
62-untitled.wav	And yet AI now feels like an endless river of creativity.
63-untitled.wav	making poetry and images and music and video that stretch the imagination.
64-untitled.wav	People said it would never be empathetic, and yet today millions of people enjoy meaningful conversations with AIs.
65-untitled.wav	talking about their hopes and dreams and helping them work through difficult emotional challenges. AIs can now drive cars.
66-untitled.wav	manage energy grids and even invent new molecules. Just a few years ago, each of these was impossible.
67-untitled.wav	And all of this is turbocharged by spiraling exponentials of data and computation.
68-untitled.wav	Last year, Infliction 2.5, our last model used 5 billion times more computation.
69-untitled.wav	than the DeepMind AI that beat the old-school Atari games just over 10 years ago. That's nine orders of magnitude, more computation.
70-untitled.wav	10x per year, every year, for almost a decade. Over the same time, the size of these models has grown, from first tens of millions of parameters to then billions of parameters.
71-untitled.wav	and very soon tens of trillions of parameters. If someone did nothing but read 24 hours a day for their entire life, they'd consume 8 billion words. And of course that's a lot of words.
72-untitled.wav	But today, the most advanced AIs consume more than 8 trillion words in a single month of training.
73-untitled.wav	And all of this is set to continue. The long arc of technological history is now in an extraordinary new phase.
74-untitled.wav	So what does this mean in practice? Well, just as the internet gave us the browser and the smartphone gave us apps, the cloud-based supercomputer is ushering in a new era of ubiquitous AIs.
75-untitled.wav	Everything will soon be represented by a conversational interface, or to put it another way, a personal AI. And these AI's will be infinitely knowledgeable, and soon they'll be factually accurate and reliable.
76-untitled.wav	They'll have near perfect IQ. They'll also have exceptional EQ. They'll be kind, supportive, empathetic.
77-untitled.wav	These elements on their own would be transformational. Just imagine if everybody had a personalized tutor in their pocket and access to low-cost medical advice.
78-untitled.wav	A lawyer, a doctor, a business strategist and coach, all in your pocket 24 hours a day. But things really start to change when they develop what I call AQ.
79-untitled.wav	their actions quotient. This is their ability to actually get stuff done in the digital and physical world. And before long, it won't just be people that have AIs.
80-untitled.wav	Strangers it may sound, every organisation from small business to non-profit to national government each will have their own.
81-untitled.wav	Every town, building and object will be represented by a unique interactive persona. And these won't just be mechanistic assistants. There'll be companions.
82-untitled.wav	confidence, colleagues, friends and partners as varied and unique as we all are. At this point, AIs will convincingly imitate humans at most tasks.
83-untitled.wav	And we'll fill this at the most intimate of scales. An AI organizing a community get together for an elderly neighbour, a sympathetic expert helping you make sense of a difficult diagnosis.
84-untitled.wav	but will also feel it at the largest scales, accelerating scientific discovery, autonomous cars on the roads, drones in the skies, they'll both order the takeout and run the power station.
85-untitled.wav	They'll interact with us and of course with each other. They'll speak every language, taking every pattern of sense of data, sights, sounds.
86-untitled.wav	Streams and streams of information faster passing what any one of us could consume in a thousand lifetime So what is this? What are these aIs
87-untitled.wav	If we are to prioritize safety above all else, to ensure that this new wave always serves and amplifies humanity, then we need to find the right metaphors for what this might become.
88-untitled.wav	For years, we in the AI community and I specifically have had a tendency to refer to this as just tools. But that doesn't really capture what's actually happening here.
89-untitled.wav	AIs are clearly more dynamic, more ambiguous, more integrated and more emergent than mere tools, which are entirely subject to human control. So to contain this wave...
90-untitled.wav	to put human agency at its centre and to mitigate the inevitable unintended consequences that are likely to arise. We should start to think about them as we might a new kind of digital species.
91-untitled.wav	Now it's just an analogy, it's not a literal description and it's not perfect. We first start the clarion biological in any traditional sense.
92-untitled.wav	But just pause for a moment and really think about what they already do. They communicate in our languages. They see what we see. They consume unimaginably large amounts of information.
93-untitled.wav	They have memory, they have personality, they have creativity, they can even reason to some extent and formulate rudimentary plans.
94-untitled.wav	They can act autonomously if we allow them. And they do all this at levels of sophistication that is far beyond anything that we've ever known from a mere tool.
95-untitled.wav	And so saying AI is mainly about the math or the code is like saying we humans are mainly about carbon and water. It's true, but it completely misses the point.
96-untitled.wav	And yes, I get it. This is a super arresting thought. But I honestly think this frame helps sharpen our focus on the critical issues. What are the risks?
97-untitled.wav	What are the boundaries that we need to impose? What kind of AI do we want to build? Or allow to be built?
98-untitled.wav	This is a story that's still unfolding. Nothing should be accepted as a given. We all must choose what we create. What AIs we bring into the world.
99-untitled.wav	or not. These are the questions for all of us here today and all of us alive at this moment.
