01-untitled.wav	I was born and raised in Tucson, Arizona. I was a single mom.
02-untitled.wav	And when I was 15 years old, I moved out because of her struggles with substance abuse. The next year, 2017, while living with my boyfriend and his family.
03-untitled.wav	My Senator voted to strip the funding that I needed when I walked into a clinic with no money, no insurance and no parents to
04-untitled.wav	walk out with the birth control I needed to take control of my body, my future. It was personal and I told him so at a town hall meeting in
05-untitled.wav	I asked if birth control is helping me to be successful reach for higher education, why would he deny me the American dream?
06-untitled.wav	millions of people saw that video overnight. I had gone viral. My life went from private to public requests from CNN.
07-untitled.wav	rolled in to go live. The Washington Post called me the new face of Planned Parenthood. Social media put me a 16 year old girl.
08-untitled.wav	working at a gas station on even footing in the public discourse with the United States Senator. My world has opened up an unimaginable
09-untitled.wav	ways because of social media, both good and bad. And in the nearly decade since, it's made possible things I could
10-untitled.wav	but I've seen the dark side of insidious algorithms and the ways the companies profit from them.
11-untitled.wav	Like the day in 2021, when a stranger labeled me the enemy. Four days...
12-untitled.wav	later. Hundreds of thousands of impressions, 60,000 likes, 4,000 retweets, 600 replies later,
13-untitled.wav	cyber mob, had filled my DMs and comments across all social media platforms. And now I need you to be in my shoes for a second.
14-untitled.wav	old, isolated by an ongoing pandemic and to reach for your phone, first thing in the morning, because it's also your alarm. To wake up.
15-untitled.wav	of threats to your personal safety and information. Have a notification center full of comments about how you look and speculation on an identity that you yourself.
16-untitled.wav	are only just coming to build. Social media platforms didn't have a solution for the hate that they've...
17-untitled.wav	facilitated, but young people in my community did. My and I met on Instagram through Gen Z Girl Gang.
18-untitled.wav	That's the digital collective. I founded out of my dorm in 2019, and ever since we've been committed to redefining the practice of sister.
19-untitled.wav	in digital spaces. In 2021, we had never met in real life. But when I needed her, she was there. She sent me a...
20-untitled.wav	text a lifeline if I can be honest with you, send me your passwords. She went in and deleted hateful comments and DMs before I...
21-untitled.wav	I could ever even see them. Knowing that otherwise, I would be forced to open, experience and clear.
22-untitled.wav	each and every one alone. We deserve respect for our rights, privacy, and safety by design, not as an afterthought.
23-untitled.wav	And clear protection against hate and harassment that are informed by our experiences.
24-untitled.wav	standing up for ourselves and our friends. I've seen countless gestures like this one in my time running this digital collective in our pandemic support chats, girls who had never
25-untitled.wav	met, volunteered their stimulus checks to help a long distance bestie in need. They've shared thousands of internships, job opportunities.
26-untitled.wav	Fellowships that have become career-making moments first jobs for women they may never meet. Big Tech wasn't come
27-untitled.wav	to save us, but girls like my friends just might. In my experience, it is teenage girls that are the digital strategists.
28-untitled.wav	of our time in an internet not built for us, we have built narrative and political power one viral video at a time.
29-untitled.wav	We've developed survival strategies like Maya to protect ourselves and our friends and we're not stopping there.
30-untitled.wav	We're building a new better way of being online, no matter your generation or your gender, so let me be the first to welcome you to the Girl Internet.
31-untitled.wav	Arcaver Own was founded in 2008. If you ask almost any girl my age about it, she'll respond with a story of...
32-untitled.wav	her introduction to the internet via its sometimes salacious fan works, but even more subversive is its structure. A non-commercial-
33-untitled.wav	non-profit archive run by an elected board completely volunteer powered supporting a user base of over 8 million and its legacy
34-untitled.wav	brings us new younger builders like Sarah Nakvey, whose experience running one direction stand account as a teenager has transformed into an...
35-untitled.wav	AI-powered VC-backed search engine for the fan girls called Lore. And then there's a sunroom where the girls get paid to exist. Think only fans.
36-untitled.wav	personalized, monetized content, but for everyone from fitness instructors to career coaches, and yes, obviously hot girls.
37-untitled.wav	But with content moderation done through a woman's lens and zero tolerance for harassment and hate speech and if you still have questions...
38-untitled.wav	about the digital world that we're building, there's DM. Founded by an all-women team, it's built to feel like you're asking questions. And the
39-untitled.wav	Girls' Restroom at 1am. Founded in 2023, it has a user base of over 100,000. And saw an increase by 700%.
40-untitled.wav	then in searches in the days following the US presidential inauguration in 2025. And that's no surprise because a quarter of their searches are about
41-untitled.wav	productive health. And they're serious about our privacy, guaranteeing anonymous searching in a moment where major platforms are censoring women's health information.
42-untitled.wav	And respect for their consumers and creators is actually built into their business model. They reward conversations that train their algorithm with gem.
43-untitled.wav	They work a lot like credit card points. You can use them at your favorite brands or as donations to the causes you care about. I even saw a dad of
44-untitled.wav	two little girls coming to DM to ask for advice. He came away with everything from book recommendations, to affirmations from fellow users. So while these,
45-untitled.wav	are built by and for the girls, their benefits go far beyond. They model in Internet.
46-untitled.wav	with respect, control, ownership. And they have more in common than just being built by women.
47-untitled.wav	They model a new, better architecture for a digital world that we are building. And this matters because...
48-untitled.wav	In a world where 39% of adults under 30 get their news on TikTok, this isn't some frivolous teenage pastime.
49-untitled.wav	This is the new public square. And we should not be forced to participate and hate for profit.
50-untitled.wav	business models just to participate in that public discourse. This year alone we've seen migrations from TikTok.
51-untitled.wav	to Red Note, Twitter, to Blue Sky, as entrenched as the current platforms may seem. They're not...
52-untitled.wav	permanent. These social media platforms that influence the policies of countries. Entire economy.
53-untitled.wav	are by and large younger than me. And I was born in 2000. Not to mention that many of the men
54-untitled.wav	who founded them were younger than me too, and in the case of Facebook at least, at its origin was more interested in rating their female classmates. Then democracy.
55-untitled.wav	who gets to participate in our political and public discourse. I stand in front of you today because of the internet.
56-untitled.wav	The college essay that I wrote on my phone earned me a place at my dream university on a full ride the first of my family to go to college.
57-untitled.wav	A DM, a direct message on Instagram led to a job on a history-making presidential campaign. And the following that I have built on
